hi there I'm Gary Nugent I'm the
instructional leader here in the
automotive department the other
department is actually made up of three
different areas auto body automotive
technology and automotive upholstery I'd
like to tell you a little bit about the
element body program today if I could
send 900 our program that's about nine
months long the class is actually run
from 6 45 in morning until one o'clock
gives a little bit of time afterwards go
get a part-time job if need be that
class actually went four days a week
Monday through Thursday the program is
made up of actually three different
areas modules one two and three module
one is kind of an overview of the whole
industry that includes safety and basic
things that you need to know to be an
auto body or a pink and collision guy
now module 2 gets actually into
refinishing it teaches how to detail a
car prep it to get ready to paint it and
actually how to paint now there's entry
level remember because it does take a
long time to be a journeyman pinger but
it will get you the use of the paint gun
and how to spray and get all the three
different coats on the car and make a
look nice a third module is a module
that is used to do collision work
straightening out panels putting on
bondo all that kind of good stuff that
you see when these cars are all been out
there on the freeway this class or try
out a street and back out now you have a
choice you can either take all nine
hundred hours of the program or you can
just take maybe the paint side or the
collision side both of those go along
with module one that shortens our
program up to six hundred dollars so 600
hours you can get yourself a sellable
skill now it's thinking about skills the
automotive body shop area is just
screaming for people out here they're
very short on on good technicians they
range anywhere from the price of
basically almost minimum wage for people
who are just starting out and know
nothing more than how to strip off the
bumpers off the car drop over seventy
eighty ninety thousand dollars a year
for the painter who knows what he's
doing like all of our classes here in
the automotive department we used
national standards as a criteria for the
task that we teach many of those
standards are handled by ase at the
automotive service council and the icar
council now these damage will allow you
to go and enter the trade with skills
that the trade recognizes and needs so
by coming down and get you into the
trade you get yourself started and you
get out into the shops and find your
niche and then make a few bucks along
the way